mind your decisions I'm presto Walker a
circle contains four identical squares
as shown each square has a side length
equal to two what is the radius of the
circle I adapted this problem from the
Twitter account see Scherrer 41 pause if
you'd like to give this problem a try
and when you're ready keep watching to
learn how to solve this problem
[Music]
in the video solve for the radius harder
than it looks
the challenge was to solve for the
radius of the circle in terms of the
lengths a B and C we derived the
following formula in this video I'm
going to prove this formula once again
and then we will use this formula to
solve the original problem let's get
started draw a horizontal length equal
to B then draw a vertical length that
connects to the circle by symmetry this
length must be equal to C we then
connect these two line segments and this
length will be equal to a we then extend
the line segment with a length of B to
the other side of the circle and label
this length as D by power of a point or
the intersecting chords theorem we must
have B multiplied by D is equal to the
product of C and a plus C we divide both
sides by B to get the following formula
for D we then draw the following chord
of the circle notice this chord is
opposite and inscribed right angle so it
must be a diameter of the circle with a
length equal to 2r then in this right
triangle we can use the Gogu theorem we
have a squared plus the quantity B plus
d squared must be equal to 2r the
quantity squared now let's do some
algebra we'll substitute in for D then
we'll expand out and continue to expand
out we are now going to carefully factor
the numerator well do this as follows
the first four terms can be factored as
follows we factor out a b squared and we
get the following formula the next four
terms we can factor out a common factor
of C squared we get the following
formula we substitute those in now we're
going to divide both sides by four then
we're going to take the positive square
root because we want a positive radius
we just get the formula for the radius
so how does this help us we've solved
this problem but we now want to solve
for the radius of this circle
well let's convert
our current problem into the one we've
already solved will draw this vertical
length then a horizontal length and then
another vertical length
notice that this vertical length is
equal to two this horizontal length will
be the length of four squares so it's
equal to eight and finally this vertical
length will be one side of the square
and equal to two so wave a is equal to 2
B is equal to 8 and C is equal to 2 to
show you why let's just rotate this
diagram and we have a is equal to 2 B is
equal to 8 and C is equal to 2 we can
then substitute into the formula and
then we simplify it and we immediately
get that the radius is equal to the
square root of 85 all over 2 which is
approximately four point six one and
that's our answer I love that this
problem reduces to one we've already
solved thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]